Game Idea.md, before:

# **Game Idea**

- Roguelite
- Merge abilities/spells/items? (ie combining bow with fireball spell gives bow that shoots magic fire arrows, allow weird combos like bow with shield gen item traps hit enemy in shield bubble) the more combos the better
- RPG style leveling
- Different combat options (ranged, mid, close, spells, bows, swords, daggers, hand-to-hand)
- Armor and items
- Top-down
- character builder with stat points before game and ability selection

## Unlockables

- Race (Human -> Manaborn, Start as human, elf, or Dwarf and unlock other races in playthrough)
- Classes (Wizard -> Pyromancer or cryomancer or necromancer(needs max follower count))
- Abilities
- Library of items and spells that have been discovered with descriptions
- Endless after winning level mode

## Character Builder

- Create Save Slot (Can save multiple characters. Each save slot will be unique so players can start fresh without losing their old character)
- Choose species (human, elf, dwarf, orc, etc) {Maybe add option to create custom species?} (each species has different stat bonuses and abilities)
  - Stat point effect is multiplied by species bonus (ie. orcs get 1.25x strength bonus, but -0.5x intelligence bonus)
  - Species can be evolved into a new species after certain conditions are met (ie. orc can evolve into ogre after killing a certain number of enemies or something)
- Can opt to choose a class (This affects what abilities you have available to start and the gear you start with)
  - highlight suggested stats and abilities based on class choice
  - Can choose to ignore class and set stats and abilities as desired (ie. warrior with high intelligence and wisdom)
  - Class gives starting gear and starting ability options
  - new starting abilities are unlocked during gameplay and can be swapped out after game over, gear is lost on death and each new game starts with new gear
- Choose ability (Max based on species)
- Choose stats (10 points to distribute)
- Choose name
- Save Character as template, can be used and adjusted in future games

## Classes

- **Warrior** (Melee, Strength/Constitution)
- **Archer** (Ranged, Dexterity/Agility)
- **Mage** (Spells, Intelligence/Wisdom)
- **Rogue** (Melee/Ranged, Dexterity/Charisma)
- **Priest** (Healer, Wisdom/Charisma)
- **Wanderer** (No Affinity, All Stats Equal)

## Stats

- Stats start at 1 , players get 10 points to distribute at start of game.
- Some weapons or abilities may require a certain amount of a stat to use.
- Some items will use different stats to determine effectiveness. (ie. sword damage scales with strength, bow damage scales with dexterity, spell damage scales with intelligence)

**Strength** (Melee Damage Modifier, Carry Limits, Knockback)

**Constitution** (Health, Health Regen, Defense, Resistances, Knockback Resistance)

**Agility** (Movement Speed, Passive Dodge Rate (Diminishing returns, set max), Stealth Modifier)

**Dexterity** (Attack Speed, Accuracy (Counters dodge rate), Critical Hit Rate (Diminishing returns, set max), Small Blade Damage Modifier, Ranged Damage Modifier)

**Intelligence** (Magic Spell Damage Modifier, Magic Spell Cooldown, Magic Spell Count Limits, Mana, Mana Regen, Magic Spell Penetration (Counters Resistance to a degree))

**Wisdom** (Magic Resistance, Faith Spell Cooldown, Faith Spell Count Limits, Holy Damage Modifier, Healing Modifier, Faith, Faith Regen)

**Charisma** (NPC Interaction Modifier, Merchant Prices, Follower Count Limits, Follower Blessing Modifier (Buffs Followers))

## Abilities

- Players start with 1 passive ability
- Abilities have powerful effects but can only have a few at a time.
- Can either find more in game (with trainers or consumables) or combine abilities to make new ones.
  - New abilities are saved and can be used in future games.
- Max of 3 for human characters, other species would have different limits.
- Can be upgraded with rare items or by combining with other abilities.

### Passive Examples

***Mana Circuitry*** (Rare) - Decrease spell Cooldown by percentage, increase mana regen

***Dense Musculature*** (Rare) - Each point in strength is worth 1.5 points

***Eagle Eye*** (Uncommon) - Increase ranged attack range, increase accuracy

***Quick Reflexes*** (Common) - Increase dodge chance

***Healing Aura*** (Uncommon) - Constant low grade self healing, increase active healing

***Magic Resistance*** (Common) - Decrease magic damage taken (Weaker than specific resistances)

***Poison Resistance*** (Uncommon) - Decrease poison damage taken

***Adaptive Resistance*** (Legendary) - As player takes damage, resistance to that type of damage increases permanently

## Spells

- Exactly what they sound like, use mana to cast.
- Can be combined with other spells or with abilities or items.
- If combined with item, will generally make a new item.
- If combined with another spell, will make a new spell.

### Spell Examples

***Fireball*** - Shoots a fireball

***Ice Shard*** - Shoots an ice shard

***Fireball*** + ***Ice Shard*** = ***Frostfireball*** - Shoots a blue fireball that does both fire and ice damage

***Fireball*** + **Dense Musculature** = **Fire Fist** - Ability - Melee attacks deal fire damage

***Fireball*** + **Mana Circuitry** = **Fire Affinity** - Passive - Fire spells deal more damage and cost less mana

## Items

- Can be combined with abilities or spells to make new items.
- Can be combined with other items to make new items.

### Item rarities

- Common - White
- Uncommon - Green
- Rare - Blue
- Epic - Purple
- Legendary - Orange
- Mythic - Red

### Item Attributes

#### General Attributes

- Magic
- Arcane
- *Elemental*
  - Earth
  - Air
  - Water
  - Fire
  - Poison
  - Ice
  - Lightning
  - Holy
  - Shadow
- Sharp
- Heavy
- Medium
- Light
- Fragile
- Cursed
- Blessed

#### Combining Attributes

- Combining things with the same attribute will increase the attribute's power (ie. ***Fireball*** + ***Fireball*** = ***Fireball+*** - Shoots a fireball that explodes into more fireballs)
- Combining things with different attributes will create a new attribute (ie. ***Fireball*** + ***Ice Shard*** = ***Frostfireball*** - Shoots a ball of blue fire that does both fire and ice damage)
- Some combinations create attributes that are more powerful than the sum of their parts (ie. Fire and Shadow combine to create Infernal, which does more damage of both types than normal or does a special effect of some kind)

#### Weapon Attributes

- Magic - Does generic magic damage in addition to whatever else it does
- Arcane - Like magic, but more powerful
- *Elemental*
  - Earth - Does earth damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Air - Does air damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Water - Does water damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Poison - Does poison damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Fire - Does fire damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Ice - Does ice damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Lightning - Does lightning damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Holy - Does holy damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Shadow - Does shadow damage in addition to whatever else it does
- Sharp - Increases critical hit chance
- Heavy - Heavier than normal, increases damage, decreases attack speed
- Light - Lighter than normal, increases attack speed, decreases damage
- Fragile - Does increased damage, but has a chance to break on hit
- Cursed - Increases damage, has chance to drain health or mana or something on hit
- Blessed - Increases damage, has chance to heal player on hit

#### Armor Attributes

- Magic - Decrease generic magic damage taken
- Arcane - Like magic, but more powerful
- *Elemental*
  - Earth - Decrease earth damage taken
  - Air - Decrease air damage taken
  - Water - Decrease water damage taken
  - Poison - Decrease poison damage taken
  - Fire - Decrease fire damage taken
  - Ice - Decrease ice damage taken
  - Lightning - Decrease lightning damage taken
  - Holy - Decrease holy damage taken
  - Shadow - Decrease shadow damage taken
- Heavy - Increases defense, decreases movement speed
- Medium - Average defense, average movement speed
- Light - Increases movement speed, decreases defense
- Fragile - Increases defense, but has a chance to break on hit
- Cursed - Increases defense, has chance to drain health or mana or something on hit
- Blessed - Increases defense, has chance to heal player on hit

### Item Examples

**Bow** - Shoots arrows

**Staff** - Depending on staff, can decrease cooldown, decrease mana cost, increase spell damage, etc.

**Shield Generator** - Creates a shield that absorbs damage

**Sword** - Melee weapon (strength based)

**Dagger** - Melee weapon (dexterity based)

**Holy Symbol** - May increase healing done, decrease cooldown on healing spells, or something similar

## Combining

- For spells and items, can be done in crafting menu
- For abilities, must find a place to combine them in game (ie. a shrine, a special room, etc) as these are saved and can be used in future games.

### Combining Examples

***Bow*** + ***Fireball*** = ***Fire Bow*** - Shoots fire arrows

***Bow*** + ***Shield Generator*** = ***Bubble Bow*** - Shoots arrows that create a shield bubble on hit, trapping enemies inside until bubble is destroyed

***Fireball*** + ***Ice Shard*** = ***Frostfireball*** - Shoots a blue fireball that does both fire and ice damage

***Fireball*** + **Dense Musculature** = **Fire Fist** - Ability - Melee attacks deal fire damage

***Fireball*** + **Mana Circuitry** = **Fire Affinity** - Passive - Fire spells deal more damage and cost less mana

**Fire Affinity** + **Healing Aura** = **Holy Flame** - Passive - Fire spells heal player for a percentage of damage dealt

**Magic Resistance** + ***Armor*** = ***Magic Armor*** - Item - Decrease magic damage taken, increase defense

***Long Sword*** + ***Dagger*** = ***Rapier*** - Melee weapon (dexterity based, longer reach than dagger, faster than long sword)

**Eagle Eye** + **Quick Reflexes** = **Sniper** - Passive - Increase ranged attack range, increase accuracy, increase critical hit chance

## Leveling

- Spells and abilities level with use/ actions, player levels up primarily with kills.
  - Maybe gets some xp for merging things and leveling spells.
  - Not sure how abilities would level as they are passive.
    - Maybe they level with use? (ie. ***Fire Affinity*** levels with fire spell use?)
- Spells can evolve with level, choices offered for spell growth direction
- Combining spells creates spell at lowest of two used, increase in rarity of spell always yields level 0 spell
- Items have no level, combining with spell affects rarity, applies rarity between two used. Ie, common+rare yields uncommon, common+uncommon yields uncommon. Maybe assign point value to items to that effect? Ie, 1-5 is common, 6-10 is uncommon. Common 2 + Uncommon 6 is Common 4.

## Gameplay

- Top-down view
- Large Open World
- Omni-directional movement and aiming
- Defeating floor boss will unlock next floor via portal
- Start with basic gear and abilities
- Find new gear and abilities in chests, from enemies, or from trainers
- Set number of floors, can continue with procedurally generated floors after final floor
- Each level increases difficulty by increasing enemy health and damage, item rarity increases based on floor number
- NPCs appear less frequently as floor number increases and in smaller and smaller towns or villages
- Chunk environment affects spell power ie fire is weak in rain, water is weak in volcano
- A few key item slots that rotate equipped with wheel scroll or number keys. (Similar to Fortnite)
  - As items and spells are found, they can be equipped in these slots.
  - If you have an item or spell equipped in a slot and find a new one, you can choose to swap, combine, or send to inventory.
- End of game stats screen after death: kills, damage dealt, damage received, etc.

Commit message:

Update combining rules for weapons

Game Idea.md, after:

# **Game Idea**

- Roguelite
- Merge abilities/spells/items? (ie combining bow with fireball spell gives bow that shoots magic fire arrows, allow weird combos like bow with shield gen item traps hit enemy in shield bubble) the more combos the better
- RPG style leveling
- Different combat options (ranged, mid, close, spells, bows, swords, daggers, hand-to-hand)
- Armor and items
- Top-down
- character builder with stat points before game and ability selection

## Unlockables

- Race (Human -> Manaborn, Start as human, elf, or Dwarf and unlock other races in playthrough)
- Classes (Wizard -> Pyromancer or cryomancer or necromancer(needs max follower count))
- Abilities
- Library of items and spells that have been discovered with descriptions
- Endless after winning level mode

## Character Builder

- Create Save Slot (Can save multiple characters. Each save slot will be unique so players can start fresh without losing their old character)
- Choose species (human, elf, dwarf, orc, etc) {Maybe add option to create custom species?} (each species has different stat bonuses and abilities)
  - Stat point effect is multiplied by species bonus (ie. orcs get 1.25x strength bonus, but -0.5x intelligence bonus)
  - Species can be evolved into a new species after certain conditions are met (ie. orc can evolve into ogre after killing a certain number of enemies or something)
- Can opt to choose a class (This affects what abilities you have available to start and the gear you start with)
  - highlight suggested stats and abilities based on class choice
  - Can choose to ignore class and set stats and abilities as desired (ie. warrior with high intelligence and wisdom)
  - Class gives starting gear and starting ability options
  - new starting abilities are unlocked during gameplay and can be swapped out after game over, gear is lost on death and each new game starts with new gear
- Choose ability (Max based on species)
- Choose stats (10 points to distribute)
- Choose name
- Save Character as template, can be used and adjusted in future games

## Classes

- **Warrior** (Melee, Strength/Constitution)
- **Archer** (Ranged, Dexterity/Agility)
- **Mage** (Spells, Intelligence/Wisdom)
- **Rogue** (Melee/Ranged, Dexterity/Charisma)
- **Priest** (Healer, Wisdom/Charisma)
- **Wanderer** (No Affinity, All Stats Equal)

## Stats

- Stats start at 1 , players get 10 points to distribute at start of game.
- Some weapons or abilities may require a certain amount of a stat to use.
- Some items will use different stats to determine effectiveness. (ie. sword damage scales with strength, bow damage scales with dexterity, spell damage scales with intelligence)

**Strength** (Melee Damage Modifier, Carry Limits, Knockback)

**Constitution** (Health, Health Regen, Defense, Resistances, Knockback Resistance)

**Agility** (Movement Speed, Passive Dodge Rate (Diminishing returns, set max), Stealth Modifier)

**Dexterity** (Attack Speed, Accuracy (Counters dodge rate), Critical Hit Rate (Diminishing returns, set max), Small Blade Damage Modifier, Ranged Damage Modifier)

**Intelligence** (Magic Spell Damage Modifier, Magic Spell Cooldown, Magic Spell Count Limits, Mana, Mana Regen, Magic Spell Penetration (Counters Resistance to a degree))

**Wisdom** (Magic Resistance, Faith Spell Cooldown, Faith Spell Count Limits, Holy Damage Modifier, Healing Modifier, Faith, Faith Regen)

**Charisma** (NPC Interaction Modifier, Merchant Prices, Follower Count Limits, Follower Blessing Modifier (Buffs Followers))

## Abilities

- Players start with 1 passive ability
- Abilities have powerful effects but can only have a few at a time.
- Can either find more in game (with trainers or consumables) or combine abilities to make new ones.
  - New abilities are saved and can be used in future games.
- Max of 3 for human characters, other species would have different limits.
- Can be upgraded with rare items or by combining with other abilities.

### Passive Examples

***Mana Circuitry*** (Rare) - Decrease spell Cooldown by percentage, increase mana regen

***Dense Musculature*** (Rare) - Each point in strength is worth 1.5 points

***Eagle Eye*** (Uncommon) - Increase ranged attack range, increase accuracy

***Quick Reflexes*** (Common) - Increase dodge chance

***Healing Aura*** (Uncommon) - Constant low grade self healing, increase active healing

***Magic Resistance*** (Common) - Decrease magic damage taken (Weaker than specific resistances)

***Poison Resistance*** (Uncommon) - Decrease poison damage taken

***Adaptive Resistance*** (Legendary) - As player takes damage, resistance to that type of damage increases permanently

## Spells

- Exactly what they sound like, use mana to cast.
- Can be combined with other spells or with abilities or items.
- If combined with item, will generally make a new item.
- If combined with another spell, will make a new spell.

### Spell Examples

***Fireball*** - Shoots a fireball

***Ice Shard*** - Shoots an ice shard

***Fireball*** + ***Ice Shard*** = ***Frostfireball*** - Shoots a blue fireball that does both fire and ice damage

***Fireball*** + **Dense Musculature** = **Fire Fist** - Ability - Melee attacks deal fire damage

***Fireball*** + **Mana Circuitry** = **Fire Affinity** - Passive - Fire spells deal more damage and cost less mana

## Items

- Can be combined with abilities or spells to make new items.
- Can be combined with other items to make new items.

### Item rarities

- Common - White
- Uncommon - Green
- Rare - Blue
- Epic - Purple
- Legendary - Orange
- Mythic - Red

### Item Attributes

#### General Attributes

- Magic
- Arcane
- *Elemental*
  - Earth
  - Air
  - Water
  - Fire
  - Poison
  - Ice
  - Lightning
  - Holy
  - Shadow
- Sharp
- Heavy
- Medium
- Light
- Fragile
- Cursed
- Blessed

#### Combining Attributes

- Combining things with the same attribute will increase the attribute's power (ie. ***Fireball*** + ***Fireball*** = ***Fireball+*** - Shoots a fireball that explodes into more fireballs)
- Combining things with different attributes will create a new attribute (ie. ***Fireball*** + ***Ice Shard*** = ***Frostfireball*** - Shoots a ball of blue fire that does both fire and ice damage)
- Some combinations create attributes that are more powerful than the sum of their parts (ie. Fire and Shadow combine to create Infernal, which does more damage of both types than normal or does a special effect of some kind)

#### Weapon Attributes

- Magic - Does generic magic damage in addition to whatever else it does
- Arcane - Like magic, but more powerful
- *Elemental*
  - Earth - Does earth damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Air - Does air damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Water - Does water damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Poison - Does poison damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Fire - Does fire damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Ice - Does ice damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Lightning - Does lightning damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Holy - Does holy damage in addition to whatever else it does
  - Shadow - Does shadow damage in addition to whatever else it does
- Sharp - Increases critical hit chance
- Heavy - Heavier than normal, increases damage, decreases attack speed
- Light - Lighter than normal, increases attack speed, decreases damage
- Fragile - Does increased damage, but has a chance to break on hit
- Cursed - Increases damage, has chance to drain health or mana or something on hit
- Blessed - Increases damage, has chance to heal player on hit

#### Armor Attributes

- Magic - Decrease generic magic damage taken
- Arcane - Like magic, but more powerful
- *Elemental*
  - Earth - Decrease earth damage taken
  - Air - Decrease air damage taken
  - Water - Decrease water damage taken
  - Poison - Decrease poison damage taken
  - Fire - Decrease fire damage taken
  - Ice - Decrease ice damage taken
  - Lightning - Decrease lightning damage taken
  - Holy - Decrease holy damage taken
  - Shadow - Decrease shadow damage taken
- Heavy - Increases defense, decreases movement speed
- Medium - Average defense, average movement speed
- Light - Increases movement speed, decreases defense
- Fragile - Increases defense, but has a chance to break on hit
- Cursed - Increases defense, has chance to drain health or mana or something on hit
- Blessed - Increases defense, has chance to heal player on hit

### Item Examples

**Bow** - Shoots arrows

**Staff** - Depending on staff, can decrease cooldown, decrease mana cost, increase spell damage, etc.

**Shield Generator** - Creates a shield that absorbs damage

**Sword** - Melee weapon (strength based)

**Dagger** - Melee weapon (dexterity based)

**Holy Symbol** - May increase healing done, decrease cooldown on healing spells, or something similar

## Combining

- For spells and items, can be done in crafting menu
- For abilities, must find a place to combine them in game (ie. a shrine, a special room, etc) as these are saved and can be used in future games.
- For Weapons, can only be combined at an anvil or forge.

### Combining Examples

***Bow*** + ***Fireball*** = ***Fire Bow*** - Shoots fire arrows

***Bow*** + ***Shield Generator*** = ***Bubble Bow*** - Shoots arrows that create a shield bubble on hit, trapping enemies inside until bubble is destroyed

***Fireball*** + ***Ice Shard*** = ***Frostfireball*** - Shoots a blue fireball that does both fire and ice damage

***Fireball*** + **Dense Musculature** = **Fire Fist** - Ability - Melee attacks deal fire damage

***Fireball*** + **Mana Circuitry** = **Fire Affinity** - Passive - Fire spells deal more damage and cost less mana

**Fire Affinity** + **Healing Aura** = **Holy Flame** - Passive - Fire spells heal player for a percentage of damage dealt

**Magic Resistance** + ***Armor*** = ***Magic Armor*** - Item - Decrease magic damage taken, increase defense

***Long Sword*** + ***Dagger*** = ***Rapier*** - Melee weapon (dexterity based, longer reach than dagger, faster than long sword)

**Eagle Eye** + **Quick Reflexes** = **Sniper** - Passive - Increase ranged attack range, increase accuracy, increase critical hit chance

## Leveling

- Spells and abilities level with use/ actions, player levels up primarily with kills.
  - Maybe gets some xp for merging things and leveling spells.
  - Not sure how abilities would level as they are passive.
    - Maybe they level with use? (ie. ***Fire Affinity*** levels with fire spell use?)
- Spells can evolve with level, choices offered for spell growth direction
- Combining spells creates spell at lowest of two used, increase in rarity of spell always yields level 0 spell
- Items have no level, combining with spell affects rarity, applies rarity between two used. Ie, common+rare yields uncommon, common+uncommon yields uncommon. Maybe assign point value to items to that effect? Ie, 1-5 is common, 6-10 is uncommon. Common 2 + Uncommon 6 is Common 4.

## Gameplay

- Top-down view
- Large Open World
- Omni-directional movement and aiming
- Defeating floor boss will unlock next floor via portal
- Start with basic gear and abilities
- Find new gear and abilities in chests, from enemies, or from trainers
- Set number of floors, can continue with procedurally generated floors after final floor
- Each level increases difficulty by increasing enemy health and damage, item rarity increases based on floor number
- NPCs appear less frequently as floor number increases and in smaller and smaller towns or villages
- Chunk environment affects spell power ie fire is weak in rain, water is weak in volcano
- A few key item slots that rotate equipped with wheel scroll or number keys. (Similar to Fortnite)
  - As items and spells are found, they can be equipped in these slots.
  - If you have an item or spell equipped in a slot and find a new one, you can choose to swap, combine, or send to inventory.
- End of game stats screen after death: kills, damage dealt, damage received, etc.
